# Cyclistic Data Project - Google Case Study

The Scenario ---
In 2016, Cyclistic launched a successful bike-share offering. Since then, the program has grown to a fleet of 5,824 bicycles that are geo-tracked and locked into a network of 692 stations across Chicago. The bikes can be unlocked from one station and returned to any other station in the system anytime. Until now, Cyclistic’s marketing strategy relied on building general awareness and appealing to broad consumer segments. One approach that helped make these things possible was the flexibility of its pricing plans: single-ride passes, full-day passes, and annual memberships. Customers who purchase single-ride or full-day passes are referred to as casual riders. Customers who purchase annual memberships are Cyclistic members. Cyclistic’s finance analysts have concluded that annual members are much more profitable than casual riders. Although the pricing flexibility helps Cyclistic attract more customers, Moreno believes that maximizing the number of annual members will be key to future growth. Rather than creating a marketing campaign that targets all-new customers, Moreno believes there is a very good chance to convert casual riders into members. She notes that casual riders are already aware of the Cyclistic program and have chosen Cyclistic for their mobility needs. Moreno has set a clear goal: Design marketing strategies aimed at converting casual riders into annual members. To do that, however, the marketing analyst team needs to better understand how annual members and casual riders differ, why casual riders would buy a membership, and how digital media could affect their marketing tactics. Moreno and her team are interested in analyzing the Cyclistic historical bike trip data to identify trends.

Business Task ---
Identify trends/indicators from previous 12 months (May 22 – May 23) which can help differentiate casual customer bike usage from annual member bike usage for future marketing strategy.  

Data Sources --- 
The datasets used for this case study represents real-world data; however, Cyclistic is a fictional company.  Instead of using the real company’s name, we will use public data which they have released.  The data has been made available by Motivate International Inc. under this license (https://ride.divvybikes.com/data-license-agreement).  All datasets were downloaded as zip files and stored in one folder saved as “Cyclistic Data”.  Two sub-folders were created – one for raw data and the other for cleaned data, named accordingly.  Finally, each individual file was named in “YYYYMM-cyclistic-tripdata.csv” format.  

SPECIAL NOTE: To cope with sheer amount quantity of data, proportions are used for this simple case study.  To find these new quantities, the percentage of "casual" customers for each month was calculated (Example: 45,672 out of 186,398 = 24.5%).  This new percentage was then aggregated out of 1000 total rows (Example: 24.5% out of 1,000 = 245 casual customers).  In this, a fair percentage of representative data is still present, without constant RAM limitation issues and software crashing.  Additionally, sheets were sorted by RIDE_ID first, allowing a complete random sampling, giving each data entry a fair chance of selection. 
